so in this video we're going to use the
Python Library the module that we've
installed in the previous video so
if you haven't installed pytz module you
need to go away and do that before this
will work because otherwise you get some
weird errors and you won't be able to
use the module so how do we check that
that model has been installed
successfully
well lets write up a test program to make sure it's all
working so type....we should be able to type pytz and use it as we
normally used an import.... so you should find
that will work now that we have installed that and lets display the current time in moscow I am going to import date time
as well
and will put...
....so we are going to display the time zone for
moscow and we will put...
.....
.....and that's not actually an error
that you can see there that's just it
showing in a different color and we will now put....
....
.....
......
...so there is our program so lets right click it and
incidentally I've created a new Python file called tztest.py I'm still
using the same project we've used for
date and time so right click that
and run it so we make sure we're running
this file and the time in europe moscow
is january 29th 2016 and its
5 am there and if you can
just confirm that we can go to Google
and and search for current time
moscow 5:28 a.m. GMT +3
29th of January so you can see that
we've got that working quite nicely so
close that down now
obviously from pytz module we used the timezone
method on line 6 and that's because
the pytz only deals with time zone
information by using pytz to create
a tzinfo object then we then used on line 7 to calculate the
local time in any country so you could
change this to any country and do the same
now from pytz we can use the timezone
method to get the tzinfo object for any
chosen country but the required string
is difficult to sort if you wanted to
provide the entire list to a user so is moscow
really in Europe and will most
people really know to look there
what we can do is we can print the
entire list of valid strings that the
pytz.timezone method accepts
quite easily and the reason we can do that is it
quite helpfully provides a Python list
called all_timezones so we could put
something....
...so run that now you can see we got a
list of everything for the various
countries a heap of Australia as you can see but
quite a few different ones are showing there
the other thing I actually do also is
provide a dictionary of country names
who's keys the iso316 country code
in other words GB for britain AU for
Australia etc so we can put...
....
....so if we run and have a look at the
results you can see we got the identifier to
the left and then the actual name to the
right AU for Australia US  for United States GB for
Great Britain etcetera now the thing to
remember here is that the list of
countries isn't actually good enough for getting the timezone and that's because many countries
have got more than one timezone and so it
is possible to retrieve a list of all
the time zones for a country code and
display them after the country name so
we might be tempted to just use the same
key then pytz.time_zone dictionary
something like this you could do...
......
.....
....so you could try that so its probably
reasonably to expect both dictionaries to
contain the same keys so run that
we've actually got an error here so the
program actually ran until it hit the
Key BV at which point it crashed
and that's because there is no time zone defined for Ireland
so as its
inhabited it's a bit strange that you have keys
in the country names in the list at all but we
can't really blame pytz for that
sorry we can't really use the same keys as you
can see there now the timezone data
itself it comes
from a data base that's maintained by
IANA in which is the internet assigned
names authority and I'm just gonna
bring up that link in a browser and it's
these guys and that's where the time zone
date is coming from now it's often
referred to as the Olsen database and
that's named after its creator Arthur David Olsen the database contains a history of
timezone and Daylight Saving Time changes
and is pretty much considered the
definitive source of information on
these now it is kept up-to-date and used to
update the time zone information on most
computers although that said Windows
does things slightly differently now
as long as your computer is receiving those updates
the local timezone database should be
kept up to date but if you got a time for
moscow that was four hours behind UTC
rather than 3 as you see in our pytz example
that means your probably running Windows XP which is
no longer updated and therefore missing
last year's change because its out of date
so with that said how to we get
around this well we can do is go back to the
code is we can write our code a bit more
defensively by using the Get Command
or the get method I should say and if you
remember from the lectures on
dictionaries this returns none
rather than an exception if the keys is not
in the dictionary so we could take a
copy of this again well I'll just make
a change because obviously it's crashing
the problem is is pytz.country_timezones if we change that and instead
of putting and make the a .get
with x as the parameter that's going to return
none in the case of there being a time
zone nonexistent for a particular
country so you can run that and see what
happens now we don't get a crash and you
can see we got time zones now so we come back
up Australia and you notice we got multiple time
zones are quite happily working now
Australian Lord Howe Macquarie Hobart
etc as we go across there is quite a
few there and likewise for some of the other ones
as well Australia America Antarctica
etc so its obviously now working
if you go back to B
Bouvet Island is still showing on the list but now is not getting any
timezone information and that's
because we got none returned and
prevented the program from crashing now if you
needed to perform a more complicated
operation than just printing the list
what we could do was split up the access
to country_timezones and then check if
that the key is in the dictionary
first so
actual what I might do is just comments one of
this out now take a copy of that but then
ccomment that out and you can come back and refer to it if you need to so lets go back and paste that command
again what we want to do is to start
is removing the time zones from this
part of the
screen here now so I'm going to...so we just got 2 we are gong to print x
as the parameters and the format pytz.country_timezone.get(x) we are going to leave that all together
we gonna put.....
.....if you
get an entry in time zone if that is the case we are going to print...
...so this time we are actually gonna
show that instead of just using
the default which was just to print
anything so we can do that and run this...and you
see we quite happily get the same
information we come up here we now got Bouvet Island
no time zone defined and you can see its working nicely and it is a more defensive
way of doing it and more complicated but
you can see that by splitting the access
to country_timezone and
then checking
the keys in the dictionary first were able to process it that way now one thing
we might want to do is to print the
time for each of the timezones in each country
that's fairly easy to do now that we've
got pytz to use with date time so what we gonna
do is print each time on a new line
indented by 2 tab stops and so
that we can remove the and parameter in the
print statement on line 12 so we gonna
do is come up to here after the if instead of just doing a print what
we're going to do is put....
......
........
.......and I'm
going to print something a bit different
than before and will put some tabs in
so.....
.....
...so no we've done
that we should be able to run this and see
the result and you can see we've now
actually got to the actual current time
for that time zone showing on the screen
that is pretty cool as you can see if we come
back and check Australia we got Adelaide
current times 13:11 if I just open this
up friday 1:11 p.m. 13:11 so that is
working nicely ok so I'm gonna end this video
here now because it's getting a little bit long in
the next few video we're going to
continue on our discussions and
understanding about using pytz
and introduce you to the localize
function and to some other conversion
that should be quite interesting for you
so we'll see you in the next video